# SENIOR DEVELOPER

## Tasks differences

### overview

desing, write, test, correct and document
**simple programs => moderately complex programs**

Conducts reviews of supplied specifications, with others as appropiade

### Knowledge base

**Analytical Thinking =>** same

**Attention to Detail =>** same

**Flexibility =>** same

**Improvisation =>** Dealing effectively with unexpected situations, taking
advantage of opportunities and overcoming problems.

**Persistence =>** same

**Teamwork =>** same

**Application Development Tools =>** (from familiar with to proficient in)
Software tools which automate or assist part of the development process.
Examples: Oracle Developer, Business Objects, Select.

**Programming Languages =>** (from familiar with to proficient in) A set of
codes and syntax (supported by software tools) which enable the unambiguous
translation of specified functionality into "source code" for the creation of
computer programs. Examples: Scripting languages (bash/ksh/perl/Windows
Powershell), “web languages” (ASP/PHP) and other languages C#, VB, C++.
* **Current Languages:** Python(always learning more), Bash and Zsh (basic
    scripting).
* **Learning:** Go, Rust

**Corporate, Industry and Professional Standards =>** (from aware of to
familiar with) Specific standards associated with the IT practitioner's current
role. Examples: health and safety standards, departmental programming and
accessibility standards, organisational network performance standards, service
desk procedures, corporate quality and change management processes, ITIL, eTOM,
TickIT, CMMI.

**Operational/Service Architecture =>** (from aware of to familiar with)
Knowledge of the IT infrastructure (hardware, databases, operating systems,
local area networks etc) and the IT applications and service processes used
within own organisation.

**Software Testing =>** Testing techniques used to plan and execute software
tests of all application components (functional and non-functional) to verify
that the software satisfies specified requirements and to detect errors.
Examples: dynamic testing techniques, static testing techniques, non-functional
testing techniques, test automation techniques.

**Software Testing Tools =>** Software tools which automate or assist any part
of the testing process, including the test management process, the execution of
the tests, the comparison of actual outcomes to predicted outcomes, the setting
up of test preconditions, and other test control and test reporting functions.
Examples: test management tools, capture replay tools, data preparation tools,
debugging tools, load test tools, security penetration test tools, requirements
test tools. **__ Needed __**

**Time Management Techniques =>** (from aware of to familiar with) Methods and
techniques for making effective use of own time. **__ Needed __**

**Spoken and Written English Language =>** Same
